Welcome to this guided project on Python
Geospatial Data Analysis. My name is Vinita and I will be your
instructor for this project.
I'm a certified data science instructor specializing in Python
and R for machine learning as well as TensorFlow and Keras
for deep learning.
My latest book, titled Deep Learning Projects Using
TensorFlow and Keras, was published by Apress New York.
Together we will study crime data sourced from the Boston
Police Department records.
By the end of this project, you will learn how to manipulate
geospatial data and create a dashboard like the one you see
on the screen.
Let's dive right in. Your notebook should open automatically
on startup.
You will notice that the first cell has already been filled
in for you.
This will import all the libraries and packages
that you require for this project, just click the cell and hit
run. You will notice that the second cell has been pre-filled
for you as well.
This will import the data that we are working with.
Select that cell and hit run.
Let's take a peek at our data.
First we have the incident number column, then we have
the offense code as well as the offense code group.
After that, we have the offense description.
This gives us a better idea of exactly what the crime was.
After that, we have the district as well as the reporting
area. Following this, we have the shooting column, which
indicates if a shooting was involved or not, as well as the
occurred on date, year,  month, day of the week, the hour
UCR_part ,street, latitude, longitude, location, date
and time.
Let's begin by generating our base map.
So we're going to type in the coordinates of Boston
by creating the variable Boston and saying that's equal
to open a bracket and type in 42 point 35 84 43
comma minus seven.
One point zero five.
9, 77. After the bracket hit, enter. Now type in m.
That's going to be the name of our map, is equal to Folium.
dot map, with a capital m open a bracket and type
in, location is equal to Boston comma  tile is equal
to within single locations.
We're going to use Stamen Terrain after that type in a coma,
zoom underscore start is equal to. 
Let's set it to 12.
Finally, after the bracket hit, enter and type in m.
Now hit run.
You should have a map that looks similar to mine.
Now let's create marker clusters to indicate where the crime
scenes are.
To do this, we're going to create the variable mc
and say that is equal to Marker with a capital M and cluster
with a capital.
C. Open the bracket and after the bracket hit, enter to go
to a new line.
Then we'll use a for loop.
So type in for, we'll use idx comma row, in df dot.
itter rows, open a bracket after that enter a colon click.
enter. Now use an if statement.
if not math
dot is nan open a bracket. row within a square bracket,
and single quotations type in long, after the bracket
and not math dot is nan open a bracket, row within a square
bracket and single quotations.
type in lat after the bracket, type in a colon hit, enter,
then type in, type in mc.
dot add.
underscore child. Open a bracket type in marker with a capital
M. Open
another bracket as well as a square bracket.
Then type in row.
Open another square bracket within single quotations
type in lat with a capital L after the square bracket
comma row.
within another square bracket as well as 
a single quotations
type in long with a capital L.
After all of the brackets,
hit enter. Then hit backspace until you get to the end
of the line.
Now type in M dot add underscore, child, open a bracket
and type in mc. Hit run.
When we study the map, we can see that the hot spots for
most of these crimes our Southend Dorchester and Roxbury. I
encourage you to explore the map as much as you like.
In the next task, we will view the districts with the
highest crime rates.